# Cluster Provisioning

## Overview
The ORAN O2IMS Operator serves as an O-Cloud manager, orchestrating the complete lifecycle of cluster provisioning via the `ProvisioningRequest` CR, starting from hardware provisioning and cluster installation to cluster configuration.

The operator leverages several key components to achieve this:
- [ORAN Hardware Manager Plugin](https://github.com/openshift-kni/oran-hwmgr-plugin/tree/main): Manages `NodePool` CR, interacting with the hardware manager to provision and allocate nodes for the cluster.
- [SiteConfig Operator](https://github.com/stolostron/siteconfig): Manages the `ClusterInstance` CR, initiating the cluster installation process.
- [ACM Policy Engine](https://github.com/open-cluster-management-io/governance-policy-propagator): Enforces configuration `Policies` to ensure the installed cluster is properly configured and compliant with operational requirements.

## Preparation

### Prerequisites on Hub Cluster

Ensure the following operators are installed on the hub cluster:
- Advanced Cluster Management (ACM)
- Red Hat OpenShift GitOps Operator
- SiteConfig Operator
- ORAN Hardware Manager Plugin

### Git Respository Setup

Prepare a Git repository containing all necessary deployment and configuration files for cluster provisioning and configuration. Follow the recommended directory structure as documented [here](samples/git-setup/).

## ClusterTemplate CR

A namespace-scoped CR managed by the IMS operator, defining the resources and parameters required for cluster provisioning.

The `spec` fields include:

- name: Specifies the base name of the ClusterTemplate.
- version: Defines the version of the ClusterTemplate.
- description: A description of the ClusterTemplate.
- templates:
    - hwTemplate: References the ConfigMap containing the hardware template used for node allocation.
    - clusterInstanceDefaults: References the ConfigMap containing default values for ClusterInstance.
    - policyTemplateDefaults: References the ConfigMap containing default values for ACM policy templates.
- templateParameterSchema: Specifies the OpenAPI v3 schema that defines the accepted and required parameters for provisioning a cluster. This schema is used to validate the parameters passed in the ProvisioningRequest.
- templateId: A unique identifier (UUID) for the ClusterTemplate, automatically generated by the IMS Operator if not provided.
- characteristics(FFS): A list of key/value pairs describing characteristics associated with the template.

The name of the ClusterTemplate CR must follow the format `<name.version>`, and **it must be unique across all namespaces**. The combination of name and version uniquely defines a template.

The schema defined in the `templateParameterSchema` must include the following mandatory parameters for the cluster provisioning process:
 - nodeClusterName: Specifies the name of the node cluster.
 - oCloudSiteId: Specifies the oCloud site identifier.
 - policyTemplateParameters: A subschema that defines the parameters for cluster configuration
 - clusterInstanceParameters: A subschema for ClusterInstance, defining the parameters are allowed in the ProvisioningRequest for cluster installation. Any fields are not in this subschema are disallowed and will result in validation failure.

When a ClusterTemplate is created, IMS validates the ClusterTemplate to ensure the name is unique across all namespaces, all referenced ConfigMaps exist and the required paramaters are present in the schema. Once validation is successful, the status condition `ClusterTemplateValidated` will be set to `True`. After validation, any changes to `spec` are disallowed and will be rejected. The referenced configmaps are also immutable after validation.

```
oc get clustertemplates.o2ims.provisioning.oran.org -A                                             
NAMESPACE          NAME                  AGE   STATE       DETAILS
sno-ran-du-v4-16   sno-ran-du.v4-16-v1   92s   Completed   The cluster template validation succeeded
```

An example of ClusterTemplate can be found [here](../config/samples/v1alpha1_clustertemplate.yaml).

## ProvisioningRequest CR
- validate against schema (policytemplate and clusterinstance are different)